If your child has a fractured elbow,
or olecranon,
it means there is a crack or break
in the bony tip
directly under the skin.
The most common cause is a fall
or a direct blow to the elbow.
If the fracture is at the growth plate
near the ends of the bone,
bone growth can be affected
and may require special
X-rays or other tests.
Young bones are more flexible
than an adult’s,
so a child’s bone may crack
or buckle without a clear break
instead of snapping like a dry stick.
If the joint is dislocated,
it will have to be put back into alignment.
Surgery may be needed to repair the bone
if a larger part is broken
or the break is in the joint itself.
Depending on the injury,
a fractured elbow may be treated with
casts or splints for 4 to 8 weeks.
Your child will also be given
a sling to support the elbow.